Docs for upgrading to CRDs (#9176)
hashicorp/consul: website/pages/docs/k8s/crds/upgrade-to-crds.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrade An Existing Cluster to CRDs
sidebar_title: Upgrade An Existing Cluster to CRDs
description: >-
  Upgrade an existing cluster to use custom resources.
---

# Upgrade An Existing Cluster to CRDs

-> This feature requires consul-helm >= 0.26.0 and consul >= 1.8.4.

If you have an existing Consul cluster running on Kubernetes you may need to perform
extra steps to migrate to CRDs.

> You will need to perform extra steps if you are using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to perform extra steps if you are using any of the following configurations:
```

- Helm config `connectInject.centralConfig.defaultProtocol`, e.g.

>   ```yaml

Reviewer: This reads as a list, but because of the wording it's a little unclear.
Is there a way to bullet these sections? Or use `OR` or something between them?

Author: They're already bulleted, but I added `Or` to the sentences. Yeah it looks not great. Not sure how best to a) list the features that you'll need to migrate b) show example yaml.

Reviewer: yeah its tricky, looks okay as is :)

  connectInject:
    centralConfig:
      defaultProtocol: 'http'
  ```

- Setting the `consul.hashicorp.com/connect-service-protocol` annotation on your
  connect pods, e.g.

  ```yaml
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/connect-service-protocol': 'http'
  ```

- Helm config `connectInject.centralConfig.proxyDefaults`, e.g.
  ```yaml
  connectInject:
    centralConfig:
      proxyDefaults: |
        {
          "local_connect_timeout_ms": 1000
        }
  ```

## Migration Overview

> Overall our migration process will consist of identifying which [config entries](/docs/agent/config-entries)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration process will consist of identifying which [config entries](/docs/agent/config-entries)
```

have been created in Consul and adding metadata to them so that they can
be managed by a custom resource instead.

> ## Why Migrate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Why Migrate?
```

> ## Why Migrate

Reviewer: I'm wondering if this section should come before the first sentence? :idk:

Author: Do you mean before the Migration Overview section? That makes sense to me.

All of the above settings do not support modification after the initial

> installation of Consul, i.e. they can not be changed through the Helm chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
installation of Consul, i.e. they can not be updated through the Helm chart.
```

> installation of Consul, i.e. they can not be changed through the Helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installation of Consul, i.e. they cannot be changed through the Helm chart.
```

By switching to custom resources, these settings can now be modified.

## Default Protocol

If you are setting `connectInject.centralConfig.defaultProtocol` then you must
perform the follow steps to migrate to custom resources.

1. Find existing `service-defaults` config entries:
   ```shell-session
   $ consul config list -kind service-defaults
   static-client
   static-server
   ```
1. For each entry, export the config to a file:

   ```shell-session
   $ consul config read -name static-client -kind service-defaults > static-client.json
   ```

1. Edit the file and add the key `"Meta": {"consul.hashicorp.com/source-datacenter": "dc1"}`.
   Where `dc1` is the name of your datacenter. Make sure you add any missing trailing commas required for JSON:

   ```json
   {
     "Kind": "service-defaults",
     "Name": "static-client",
     "Protocol": "http",
     "MeshGateway": {},
     "Expose": {},
     "CreateIndex": 26,
     "ModifyIndex": 26,
     "Meta": { "consul.hashicorp.com/source-datacenter": "dc1" }
   }
   ```

1. Write the updated config entry:
   ```shell-session
   $ consul config write static-client.json
   Config entry written: service-defaults/static-client

>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```

```

> 1. Now you're ready to create a custom resource that takes over control of this

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Now you're ready to create a custom resource that takes over control of this
```

   config entry. The custom resource will look like:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
   kind: ServiceDefaults
   metadata:
     name: static-client
   spec:
     protocol: 'http'
   ```

   Where `metadata.name` is the name of your service and `spec.protocol` is
   the default protocol you've set.

1. When you run `kubectl apply` on this file, the `ServiceDefaults` custom
   resource should be created successfully and its `synced` status will be `True`:

   ```shell-session
   $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
   kind: ServiceDefaults
   metadata:
     name: static-client
   spec:
     protocol: "http"
   EOF
   servicedefaults.consul.hashicorp.com/static-client created

   $ kubectl get servicedefaults static-client
   NAME            SYNCED   AGE
   static-client   True     1s
   ```

1. Repeat steps 2-6 for each service-defaults config entry.

> 1. Finally, set `connectInject.centralConfig.defaultProtocol` to `""` and run a Helm upgrade to remind yourself that it is no longer used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Finally, set `connectInject.centralConfig.defaultProtocol` to `""` and run a Helm upgrade to remind yourself that it is no longer used:
```

Reviewer: In the final example in this doc you've mentioned something to the extent of "this will have no effect.." after the helm upgrade, is that valid here also? If so it might be worth mentioning.

Author: Well in this case it does have an effect that new services don't have their protocol's set. But I've modified this to make that clearer.

> 1. Finally, set `connectInject.centralConfig.defaultProtocol` to `""` and run a Helm upgrade to remind yourself that it is no longer used:
>    ```yaml
>    connectInject:
>      centralConfig:
>        defaultProtocol: ''
>    ```

Reviewer 2: Does it makes sense to instead recommend deleting this section.
```suggestion
1. Finally, remove the `connectInject.centralConfig.defaultProtocol` entry and run a Helm upgrade for consistency:
   ```yaml
   connectInject:
     centralConfilg:
   ```
```

Reviewer 2: > to remind yourself that it is no longer used

Not sure why but this phrasing really cracked me up

Reviewer: ^ditto 👍🏽

> From new services from now on, you must create a `ServiceDefaults` custom resource

Author: 🍺

> From new services from now on, you must create a `ServiceDefaults` custom resource
> for each service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here on out, create a `ServiceDefaults` custom resource for each new service.
```

## Connect Service Protocol Annotation

If you are setting the `consul.hashicorp.com/connect-service-protocol` annotation on your

> connect pods then you must perform the follow steps to migrate to custom resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connect pods, then you must perform the follow steps to migrate to custom resources.
```

1. Find existing `service-defaults` config entries:
   ```shell-session
   $ consul config list -kind service-defaults
   static-client
   static-server
   ```

> 1. For each entry, export the config to a file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. For each entry, export the config to a file:
```

   }
   ```
1. Export to a file:

   ```shell-session
   $ consul config read -name global -kind proxy-defaults > proxy-defaults.json
   ```

1. Edit the file and add the key `"Meta": {"consul.hashicorp.com/source-datacenter": "dc1"}`.
   Where `dc1` is the name of your datacenter. Make sure you add any missing trailing commas required for JSON:
   ```json
   {
     "Kind": "proxy-defaults",
     "Name": "global",
     "Config": {
       "local_connect_timeout_ms": 1000
     },
     "MeshGateway": {
       "Mode": "local"
     },
     "Expose": {},
     "CreateIndex": 4,
     "ModifyIndex": 4,
     "Meta": { "consul.hashicorp.com/source-datacenter": "dc1" }
   }
   ```
1. Write the updated config entry:
   ```shell-session
   $ consul config write proxy-defaults.json
   Config entry written: proxy-defaults/global
   ```
1. Now you're ready to create a custom resource that takes over control of this
   config entry. The custom resource will look like:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
   kind: ProxyDefaults
   metadata:
     name: global
   spec:
     config:
       local_connect_timeout_ms: 1000
     meshGateway:
       mode: local
   ```

> 

Reviewer 2: Probably worth calling out that the `metadata.name` has to be `global`

Author: Added "Also, `metadata.name` must be `global`."

   Any keys you had under `"Config"` must be set in YAML.
   If you previously had `"MeshGateway"` config this must also be set now
   under `spec.meshGateway`.

1. When you run `kubectl apply` on this file, the `ProxyDefaults` custom
   resource should be created successfully and its `synced` status will be `True`:

   ```shell-session
   $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
   kind: ProxyDefaults
   metadata:
     name: global
   spec:
     config:
       local_connect_timeout_ms: 1000
     meshGateway:
       mode: local
   EOF
   proxydefaults.consul.hashicorp.com/global created

   $ kubectl get proxydefaults global
   NAME     SYNCED   AGE
   global   True     1s
   ```

> 1. Finally, set `connectInject.centralConfig.proxyDefaults` to `{}` and run a Helm upgrade to remind yourself that it is no longer used:

Reviewer 2: As above, does it make sense to recommend dropping it?
